[Music]
so why is it that without fail anytime
you have to stop your car and wait for a
train to cross it's always when you're
in a hurry and as you're sitting there
behind the wheel impatiently tapping
your fingers and letting out Huff's of
frustration it feels like those boxcars
passing before your eyes go for miles
hey could be worse you could have to
wait for a train that really is over a
mile long
the longest train in the world measuring
in at one and a half miles runs on the
Mauretania railway mauritania is located
in northwest africa it is access to the
Atlantic Ocean
what about 75% of its territory is
covered by the Sahara Desert there's
just one National Railway in the whole
country that was opened back in 1963
it's 437 miles long and connects the
northern iron mining town of zoo erat
with a port city of Norah Devo on the
west coast this railway is incredibly
important for Mauritania since the iron
ore industry makes up half of all the
country's exports trains that run on the
line usually consist of a handful of
service and power cars and anywhere from
200 to 210 open wagons in each of those
wagons
there are around 85 tons of iron ore if
not more do the math and you'll see that
one fully loaded train can transport a
total of about 20,000 tons of iron ore
from the northern mines to the coast as
for how long the journey takes it
depends if the train is empty and moving
northeast to the mines it takes 16 hours
if it's fully loaded and headed to the
coast it's 20 hours almost an entire day
now the fact that there's a 1 and a half
mile long train chugging through the
sahara desert on the daily route is cool
and all but check this out you can also
take a ride on the iron ore train well
as long as you're not expecting any fine
dining or any
like that up until a few years ago there
was just one option for passengers to
travel on this train and that was to
literally sit on top of it pop up plop
down and have a seat right on top of the
rocky iron ore doesn't exactly sound
like my perfect vacay but locals and
adventurous tourists alike don't seem to
mind sitting on rocks for hours on end
the hop on option has always been free
if you're up for it but now you can also
choose to take a bunk in the only
passenger car at the end of the Train it
consists of cabins with six bunks in
each it only costs three bucks but don't
expect much for such a small fee you
won't get any special services the
compartments are really crowded and they
don't exactly get cleaned mmm-hmm people
take bunks on a first-come first-served
basis so don't expect to be assigned a
specific bed you won't get a ticket food
or conductor to inform you of your
whereabouts either and to make things
even more fun there's no fixed timetable
so the Train often leaves earlier than
planned when it makes stops on the way
you better stay inside since no one will
tell you how long this or that stop will
be and if you're hoping to get some
sleep in a passenger car keep dreaming
because the ride is pretty bumpy and
noisy so probably the best thing you can
do is choose the real deal and jump in
one of those open wagons and save
yourself three bucks it's also a good
idea to catch the train on its way from
the coast to the mine because otherwise
the cars will be full of iron ore and
that stuff makes some pretty powerful
dust that's hard to wash off your face
and clothes most people hop in at Nuada
bow at around 4:00 p.m. when the train
usually departs and get off in shum not
to go the whole 16-hour way but just to
get a little taste of the adventure when
a card is empty ten people can fit in
and still have room for luggage and what
the locals for example even transport
live animals and fruits to sell speaking
of the locals there will probably be
lots of them on the train as many people
travel from town to town to visit their
families and you'll have all the time in
the world to chat with them as the sonic
booms make sleeping pretty much
impossible sonic booms are the sounds
the cars make when they hit each other
they'll make your whole body shape and
they say the adrenaline rush is
unbeatable they say there are a few more
important things to know before you head
to Mauritania for the adventure of a
lifetime
first of all there's the huge
temperature change you'll go through the
Sahara isn't always hot like many people
think it is during the day but it can be
freezing at night the wind is pretty
strong too so it's a good idea to bring
warm clothes and a thermos with you okay
so are there any perks well you get the
starry Sahara Sky instead of the boring
old roof over your head and as an added
bonus there's the most fantastic sunset
and sunrise you can imagine plus I mean
you can brag that you've been on the
longest train in the world in case the
iron ore train sounds a bit too extreme
but you'd still like to go on a
record-breaking ride I've got some more
options for you why not get yourself a
ticket for the god
one of the longest passenger trains in
the world with 44 carriages totaling
3,600 feet in length the train had more
cars added to it in 2016 during the
break season to fit in all the tourists
that wanted to enjoy the gorgeous views
of Australia the gone runs for 1,850
miles across the entire continent from
the southern city of Adelaide to Darwin
in the north the journey takes three
days and two nights to complete the
conditions on the gun are obviously way
better than on the Mauritanian train but
the price is also way higher than three
bucks
tickets cost a minimum of around two
thousand dollars
well what about long trains in the US
here's the kicker America's longest
trains are neither passenger nor cargo
there are those that once belonged to
the Ringling Brothers Circus they had
two trains or units as they called them
traveling at the same time with around
60 cars of those 33 were pretty normal
train cars for circus staff and their
families for or for the animals and
around 24 for equipment and props both
units were around 5,000 feet long and
weighed 4,000 times when fully loaded
before the greatest show on earth closed
in 2017 they would tour the entire
country in two year cycles it took the
circus crew about six hours to unload
the lengthy train and 12 hours to set
everything up for the show the Ringling
Brothers Circus trains were also the
longest in the world if we're strictly
talking privately-owned once okay well I
guess we missed that train by a few
years but if you're into you know really
epic journeys no matter how long or
short the train is there's a real treat
for you in Russia and I'm sure you know
where I'm going with this how about
giving the legendary trans-siberian
railway a try starting in the country's
capital of Moscow you'll travel more
than 5,000 750 miles over the span of a
week your final destination the Pacific
coast city of Vladivostok this train
route is the longest in the world and
covers eight time zones along the way
you'll see endless birch trees the
unbelievable landscapes of the Ural
Mountains and everyone's favorite the
deepest lake in the world Bay cals if
it's not the length of the train or the
journey but the speed that matters to
you most then get yourself a ticket on
china's shanghai maglev train it's
currently the fastest commercially
operated train in the world reaching top
speeds of 267 miles per hour
it runs from Pudong International
Airport to the longyang road station
that's a distance of about 20 miles in
under eight minutes
but if you're looking to cover a larger
distance and you still have the need for
speed
then I'd recommend the ths r700 T you
might want to write that one down
racing down the track at over 185 miles
per hour it goes from the Taiwan capital
of Taipei to kyoshi Yong City a distance
of 225 miles in just 90 minutes that's
like going from New York to Boston in an
hour and a half so can we get one of
those fancy trains - all right bright
ciders would you prefer to go on the
longest or the fastest train journey let
me know down in the comments and if you
learn something new today then give this
video a like and share it with a friend
but don't depart the train just yet we
have over 2,000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life